Docs day acl improvements (#12460)
hashicorp/consul: website/content/docs/security/acl/acl-tokens.mdx

---
layout: docs
page_title: Tokens
description: >-
  This topic describes access control list (ACL) tokens. Tokens are the core method of authentication in Consul.
---

# Tokens

This topic describes access control list (ACL) tokens, which are the core method of authentication in Consul.

## Introduction

Tokens are artifacts in the ACL system used to authenticate users, services, and Consul agents. When ACLs are enabled, entities requesting access to a resource must include a token that has been linked with a policy, service identity, or node identity that grants permission to the resource. The ACL system checks the token and grants or denies access to resource based on the associated permissions.

> Refer to the [ACL system workflow overview](/docs/security/acl/acl-system#workflow-overview) for an information about tokens' role in the ACL system.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Refer to the [ACL system workflow overview](/docs/security/acl/acl-system#workflow-overview) for information about tokens' role in the ACL system.
```

## Creating Tokens

The person responsible for administrating ACLs can use the API or CLI to create and link tokens to entities that enable permissions to resources.

> Refer to the [ACL API ](/api-docs/acl) and [ACL CLI](/commands/acl) documentation for instructions on how to create and link tokens. Tokens can also be created dynamically from trusted external system using an

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Refer to the [ACL API](/api-docs/acl) and [ACL CLI](/commands/acl) documentation for instructions on how to create and link tokens. Tokens can also be created dynamically from trusted external system using an
```

[auth method](/docs/security/acl/auth-methods).

## Passing Tokens

Users deploying their services into the network or performing some operations in the Consul command line or GUI will need to include the value of the token's `SecretID` attribute. The `SecretID` is often referred to as the ACL token. It is an opaque string that identifies the requester so that the ACL system can determine if access to the requested resource should be granted or denied.

> Tokens have several additional attributes. Refer to [Token Attributes](#token-attributes) for details.

Author: Yeah, I thought about that, but a customer might want to know how to get this information after seeing the output. We could include the list command to explain it, but one of the points Daniel was making in the original PR is that we are providing too much info upfront. So now we have a vicious circle of too much/not enough information. My solution was just to describe the attributes in a different section as more of an appendix. I'm probably overthinking it.

> Tokens have several additional attributes. Refer to the (see [Token Attributes](#token-attributes)).

Reviewer: Not sure what's the best way to clean this line
```suggestion
Tokens have several additional attributes. Refer to [Token Attributes](#token-attributes) for details.
```
